   Help file for "The Tower of Darkness"


        I       Basic History

        II      Layout

        III     Quests

        IV      Errors



        Basic History

       A long time ago there was a conflict between Sargon, the God of
shadows and Darkness, and Reanna, the Goddess of Light. They both eventually
came down to earth to lead their individual forces in the Wars of Light and
Shadow. At the end of the war the Heros of Light, led by Martin Lewellyn
took a blade forged by Reanna and struck Sargon down while his army was away.
They then imprisioned Sargon, along with his most powerful minions while the
God was Wakened from the blow in a Pocket Diminsion called Exile.
       After the God's imprisonment his most powerful sorcerer, Earlion, was the only
powerful follower of Sargon left, the other Heros of Darkness having been
imprisoned in Exile along with the God. The Army of Light was then marching
on the Tower of Darkness, the center of Sargon's power. Knowing that if he
stayed he and the tower would be destroyed Earlion told all of the army and
lay followers of Sargon to flee and that one day a Man would come and bring
back the tower and release the god from his prison. Earlion then cast a spell
that took the tower away from time and space, moving it to a place "between
moments" as it is called in his journal.
       After this nothing happened much. For many years Reanna was a very
powerful goddess. Yet over time her power has deteriorated to the point that
now she has one last follower. This follower and cleric lives on the site
where Sargon was imprioned, right outside the ancient site of the Tower of
Darkness.
       Into this situation Urian Shadowborn enters. Urian is an extemely
powerful wizard who has had visions sent by Sargon from the Prison showing
how to open Exile and release the god. Since then he has gathered together
all of the Priests of Sargon and the Black Guard, the personal guard of Sargon
on earth. He then came to the place where the Tower was and summoned it back
from the "moment out of time".
       Now that the Tower of Darkness was back all he needed to do was open
Exile. It was written in the holy book of Sargon that he needed the five parts
of a shard of stone that served as the key to the prison on the Prime Material
Plane. After he had them all he could sacrifice the last cleric of Reanna and
he would have the Star Key to open the prison and free Sargon.
        Here the Players enter the picture. Their job is to fight from level
to level of this 6 level tower, do all the quests and get all 5 parts of the
star stone from the heads of the differant groups(the Black Guard, the clerics,
Urian himself ect...)
        When they have done that they can give the pieces of the stone to the
cleric of Reanna in the village of Dubneth(part of the zone) and he will give
them the Star Key. Then they can open the entrance to Exile, enter and kill
the Heros of Darkness and Sargon himself.



II    Layout

        The layout of the zone is as follows:

               The Village of Dubneth(including the Church of Reanna, the
                         |             Inn and the Smithy)
                         |
           The           |----(The Farm of Jenifer McLaurn
           Portal ________
           to Exile      |
                         |
                         |
                The Tower of Darkness*

        The Tower of Darkness is organized by Level. There are a total of
     6 levels. Each is a 3x3 grid. A total of 9 rooms that are all layed
     out differantly

        Level 1: The first level is the army barracks. It is mainly mid to
                 low level 40 mobs. There is one piece of eq and 2 quests.
                 Along with this is the key that locks the main door, this
                 makes the zone unraidable if you kill this person. The door
                 starts off UNlocked, and can later be locked by people doing
                 the zone.
        Level 2: This is the officers level. On this level are the Captain
                 and his officers. There is some ok eq here and the first
                 part of the Star stone.
        Level 3: This level belongs to the Black Guard. This is an elite
                 group of Anti-Paladins devoted to Sargon. The mob level
                 goes up here and the second part of the star stone is here.
        Level 4: To get into this level the word "Sargon" must be said. It
                 is the clerics level. This entire level is a death trap once
                 you enter the room past the bone golems.
        Level 5: This is the mages level. Is is basically 9 rooms but has
                 Some serius modifications. Each of the three mage groups
                 (Necros, Sorcs and Conjurers) have a teleporter on this
                 level that takes people to their true base of operations.
                 One of these is deep in the earth(Necros). One is in the
                 Abyss(the conjurers) and the other is a small pocket
                 dimision on the border of the Positive Energy Plane(the sorcs)
                 The Teleporters are pictures that are all NO_SHOW items.
                 As a note, you MUST kill all three of the small mage guilds
                 to get the keys of magic to give them to the golem in room
                 number 50 so that he can give you the key to open up Earlion's
                 room of suspended animation, kill him(get his eq and the
                 star stone for this level and get the key to Urian's door
                 on level 7).
        Level 6: This is the level of mirrors. It is a maze of teleporters
                 that throw people around. It should prove VERY confusing.
                 In it are a some ghost shadow breathers. In the center of
                 the area is a dragon that will scatter the PC's back into
                 the maze. Take a second to look at this area. Its rather
                 complicated. In the center of this area is a portal that
                 takes you to the "last level" level 7.
        Level 7: This is a small 5 room area. It has the ambassadors area
                 (Where random emissarys load every boot) and it has the
                 door into Urian's Chamber. Only he and Earlion have the key
                 to this last area of the Tower. You Have to kill Earlion on
                 Level 6 to get in here. Urian has the key to the treasure
                 chamber on this level.

        EXILE:    Exile is REALLY dangerous. The beginning of it is room 129.
                You have to go through the teleporter in room 140 to get to
                it. And you have to have done every level of the Tower of
                Darkness to get the Star Key. The lay out works like this.
                The first room is the ONLY room in the zone that is wellable
                wordable or anything like that. If you go north you enter
                the actual Exile Prison. After you enter the first room you
                must complete Exile or you lose ALL of your eq.

                   In affect you can enter Exile but you cannot get out until
                you kill Sargon. There are 4 rooms to Exile. Each room is a
                one way trip. You can go North but you cannot go back the
                way you come. So if you die you cannot CR yourself, and you
                must fight the mobs you just fought Naked. This is where
                the best eq in the zone is.

                I used no affect 3 or affect 4, no stone, globe, minor globe,
                fireshield or anything else I can think of on any objects.



III   The Quests

        There are a total of 10 quests in the zone. I will just go from the
bottom of the tower to the top doing them by number and floor.

(1)     Recently the farmers and peasants of risen up and tried to destroy
      the tower that has appeared. They were all killed to a man. Since then
      Urian has made an object lesson of them to the people of Dubneth.
      One of the young men was just married. His wife is going crazy, not
      knowing if he is dead or what. In fact... he is dead and the ogre in
      the first room has decapitated him. If the PC's give the head back to
      the woman she crys and sobs and they are rewarded with expierence.
      The decapitated head of Joseph McLaurun(obj # 7)
      His wife is mob number 151
      The mobs with the head are in room # 11

(2)     On the second level of the Tower there is a unpickable and locked
      door that leads to Kinslor Elfslayer. He has the first piece of the
      Star Stone. You have to get the key to open the door. There are two
      ways to do this.
                A. There are two stone giants in front of his room. They
                   are very greedy. You can bribe them with 100p and they
                   will give you the key.
                B. The captain is expecting a messenger from Bloodstone.
                   The envoy is in Dubneth wandering around(mob # 67) and has
                   a letter for him(obj # 36). If you kill him and deliver
                   the letter to the Sargeant of the first level(mob 27) room
                   16 then he will give you a pass to give to the elite stone
                   giants that have them give you the key to enter the area.

(3)     The next quest deals with a door as well. To get into the 5th level
     of the Tower(the Mages Level) the word "darkfather" must be said to open
     it. There is only one way to learn the word. On the 4th level of the
     Tower(the clerics level) there is a small prison area(Room 42). In that
     room is a key board that is flagged No_Show. In it is a key that will
     undo the bindings on Katalia's arms on the first level(she is mob # 11
     in room # 17). If you give her the key she will undo her writs and give
     you Exp, and also will tell you that the wizards say the word "Darkfather"
     and that it makes the door hum on the 6th level.

(4)     In the village of Dubneth is a fine smith named Dorthan. Shortly
     after the Tower reappeared Urian realised he needed more iron weapons
     for his men. He therefore stole the Smiths daughter and forced him to
     do free work for him until she is rescued. She is located on the the
     3rd level on the Black Guard's level and is mob number 55, her name is
     Amelia. If you can kill the priest in the room with her, and get his
     key and give it to her she will give you her mothers locket. If you take
     this and a lot of the normal iron weapons found in the zone to Dorthan
     he will make you the 'iron shield of Dubneth'
     Dorthan is mob # 54 in room # 66.
     Amelia is mob # 55 in room # 29.

(5)     The next major quest deals with getting the 4th part of the Star
     Stone off the 5th level. When Earlion the sorcerer took the Tower of
     Darkness to the place "between moments" he had to go with it. To make
     sure that he did no go insane during the time passage he put himself in
     stasis. He then put a large golem that has the stasis key outside the
     room. When the mages of the Tower of Darkness returned and found all
     three keys of magic(the key of Death Magic, the key of Creation Magic,
     and the key elemental magic) and gave them to the golem he would give
     them the stasis key and that would let them free Earlion and thereby
     get the 4th part of the star stone. The PC's must get all 3 keys, and
     give them to the statue, open the stasis chamber and kill earlion(In all
     his aspects).
     The key of death magic(obj 112) carried by Deadlord Verinor(mob 105) in
        room 73.
     The key to creation magic(obj 114) carried by Gailon Darkhoast(mob 142) in
        room 117.
     The key to elemental magic(obj 113) in a portal of darkness (obj 84) in
        room 97.
     you get the key of stasis(obj 118) from the old statue(mob 75) in 50.

(6)      This is an easy quest. Reanna has one planetar that works for her.
    Before he was a planetar he was the mortal that gave Sargon his death
    blow. He has been willingly captured so that he can talk to the PC's. He
    will answer a lot of questions about the zone in case the PC's have not
    figured out what is going on yet. Also if they(or when they) kill the
    person that has him imprioned and give his staff to the planetar he will
    give him the sword that struck Sargon down it is 'a broadsword of glowing light'
    but I did the thing where you have to reveal true name. In reality it is
    a broad sword named 'The Redemtion of Light'. Anyway here are the mob
    names and numbers ect...
      A long cold-iron staff(obj 116) equiped by an excited conjurer (mob 149)
       in room 115.
      a broadsword of glowing power (obj 107) givin by Azlion (mob 147) in a
        Summoning Chamber (room 113

(7) The last "True" quest is that to get the star key itself. You have to
   kill the following mobs and key the parts of the star stone from them
   and then give all 5 parts to the last cleric of Reanna, and then you
   can get the star stone to open the prision of Exile(room 5).

   the first piece (obj 132) held by Kinslor Elfslayer(mob 41) in room 19
   the second piece (133) held by Mordrin Ap'Dethyin (63) in room 30
   the third piece (134) held by Cardinal Feathron (82) in room 40
   the fourth piece (135) held by Earlion that is (92) in room 47
   the last piece (136) held by Urian Shadowborn (134) in room 123
   
     You then give all of them to Father Darrin(mob 163) in the Church of
     Holy Light(room 139). He then gives you the Star Key(Obj 126) and you can
     then enter room 140 to access to the teleporter that will teleport you to
     the beginning of Exile(room 129).

(Other)  The only quest type things are a bunch of papers that you must get
    to piece together a word that opens the portal onto the Positive Energy
    Plane. The papers are obj # 76,77,78 and 79. The portal is in room # 74.


IV      Errors

        The only errors that should show up have to do with the random mob
rooms. There are two groups of randoms. The first group is a random group of
emissaries that pops into the emissary room. I tried to rig it so that
normally one would pop per time around.
        The other group are just normal random mobs that have a mob
distribution room that they go to, that way they can be almost anywhere in
the zone.


Ok the last thing. I was hopeing that I could get some procs. The only proc
that I hope someone puts in is I would like a weapon Proc on "Darksoul, the
blade of Eternal Suffering" that Sargon has. Its two handed and I was thinking
maybe something like curse? or energy drain? anyway, whatever fits. Thanks
I hope this is what you wanted. Also maybe some zone procs to make the zone
harder. I hope you like the zone.

Shawn Lowrey, A.K.A. Lortar Fujasawa 

                                              Lortar/Avaron
                                              a.k.a. Shawn M. Lowrey
                                              518 Rebecca Ave.
                                              Hattiesburg Ms. 39401

                                              Or
                                              Shawn M. Lowrey
                                              1586 Jefferson Ave.
                                              New Oreleans La, 70115
                                              slowrey@law.tulane.edu
                                              sowrey@ocean.st.usm.edu
